>Mathematical Logic and Graph Theory 2022 Homework 10 Answers
>
>By [Jingyi Chen](chenjingyi071@mail.ustc.edu.cn) with C and [Songxiao Guo](logname@mail.ustc.edu.cn) with G after each question number.

[TOC]

#### 7.1.13 C

>a) How many nonisomorphic unrooted trees are there with ﬁve vertices?
>b) How many nonisomorphic rooted trees are there with ﬁve vertices (using isomorphism for directed graphs)?

a)3种，形状上来说，树枝个数和各树枝结点数分别是4个1，1个2和2个1,2个2。

b)9，形状上来说，自己画吧，并不难。

#### 7.1.21 C

>Suppose $1000$ people enter a chess tournament. Use a rooted tree model of the tournament to determine how
>many games must be played to determine a champion, if a player is eliminated after one loss and games are played until only one entrant has not lost. (Assume there are no ties.)

999次。（算法基础：从n个数中找出最小值至少需要n-1次）

#### 7.1.25 C

>Either draw a full $m-$ary tree with $84$ leaves and height $3$, where m is a positive integer, or show that no such tree exists.

不存在这样的树，见定理4给出的规律。

#### 7.1.43 G

>Show that a tree has either one center or two centers that are adjacent.

#### 7.2.13 G

>Complete the tournament sort of the list $22, 8, 14, 17, 3, 9, 27, 11$. Show the labels of the vertices at each step.

#### 7.2.35 G

>Suppose that we vary the payoﬀ to the winning player in the game of nim so that the payoﬀ is n dollars when n is the number of legal moves made before a terminal position is reached. Find the payoﬀ to the ﬁrst player if the
>initial position consists of
>a) two piles with one and three stones, respectively.
>b) two piles with two and four stones, respectively.
>c) three piles with one, two, and three stones, respectively.